*introduction*: Two meteorological measurement stations have been
installed in the Central Arizona-Phoenix area. The first station is
located at the Lost Dutchman State Park (LDP) in Goldfield, Arizona.
This station used an existing tower and was instrumented with new
sensors, datalogger, and power system in May 2006. The second station is
located at the Desert Botanical Garden (DBG) in Phoenix, Arizona. A new
tower was mounted on a concrete pad south of the DBG trails and new
sensors were installed in October 2006. These stations have been used to
collect meteorological measurements that are inputs to gas and particle
dry deposition models. This manual is intended to document the
installation, operation, and maintenance procedures for the LDP and DBG
meteorological measurement stations. More detailed information can be
found in the Campbell Scientific manuals for each product (http:
//www.campbellsci.com).

*site descriptions*: The Lost Dutchman State Park (LDP) meteorological
station is approximately 55 km east of downtown Phoenix, Arizona, at the
base of the Superstition Mountains to the north and east, and bordered
by desert and low density residential land to the south and west. The
Desert Botanical Garden (DBG) meteorological station is approximately 12
km east of downtown Phoenix, within the city of Phoenix and surrounded
by urban industrial, residential, and recreational land. The vegetation
canopy at both sites consists of patchy coverage of desert shrubs and
trees.

*measurement sensors*: The towers are equipped with sensors to measure
wind speed, wind direction, incoming solar radiation, air temperature,
relative humidity, and precipitation. A timestamp and record number
saved by the datalogger for each measurement. Each variable is measured
every 5 seconds and the average (or total for precipitation and total
solar radiation) is saved to the datalogger every ten minutes.

*maintenance*: Proper maintenance of the weather station is essential to
obtaining valid data. A regular program of inspection and maintenance
ensures that equipment is in good operating condition. Calibration,
sensor testing, and sensor repairs are done by Campbell Scientific. The
maintenance and calibration schedule for the towers and sensors is as
follows: tower, enclosure, wiring, and mounting hardware: check for
damage during each site visit; replace sensor cables as necessary.
Pyranometer: check the level and clean the sensor head at each visit
(weekly is recommended by Campbell); calibrate annually. Rain gage:
clean the funnel and level the gage monthly; calibrate annually.
Anemometer: visually inspect the propeller and wind vane for smooth
motion monthly. Temperature/RH Probe: check the filter and radiation
shield for contamination monthly; clean semiannually; calibrate
annually. Solar Panel: clean the glass semi-annually (or more frequently
if it becomes dirty).

*data collection*: Data are downloaded manually at approximately 6-month
intervals.
